MiniSat v1.14 / MiniSat-p v1.14
========================================

This version is a cleaned up version of the MiniSat solver entering
the SAT 2005 competition.  Some of the most low-level optimization has
been removed for the sake of clarity, resulting in a 5-10% performance
degradation. The guard on "too-many-calls" in 'simplifyDB()' has also
been improved. If uttermost performance is needed, use the competition
version, also available at the MiniSat page
(www.cs.chalmers.se/Cs/Research/FormalMethods/MiniSat/).

Several things has changed inside MiniSat since the first version,
documented in the paper "An Extensible SAT Solver". The most important
is the lack of support for non-clausal constraints in this
version. Please use MiniSat v1.12b if you need this. Other changes are
special treatment of binary clauses for efficiency (messes up the code
a bit, but gives quite a speedup), improved variable order (still
VSIDS based, but works MUCH better than in previous MiniSat
versions!), conflict clause minimization (by Niklas Sörensson), and a
better Main module (for those of you who use MiniSat as a stand-alone
solver).

The MiniSat-p version also supports proof logging, sacrificing the
binary clauses trick for clarity (some 10-20% slower). For
scalability, we decided to keep the proof only on disk. This frees up
memory for the working set of conflict clauses, and allows for
bigger-than-memory proofs to be produced (which can happen, even if
you garbage collect the proof).

For information about upcomming changes, please review the TODO file.
